HEX2BIN 1 "2017 may 10th" "Hex2bin Version 2.5"
=head1 NAME

hex2bin/mot2bin  \- converts Intel/Motorola  hex files into binary

=head1 SYNOPSIS

hex2bin [options] file

Option list:
    [-a]                Address Alignment Word (hex2bin only)
    [-b]                Batch mode: exits if specified file doesn't exist
    [-c]                Enable record checksum verification
    [-C Poly Init RefIn RefOut XorOut]
                        CRC parameters
    [-e extension]      Output filename extension (without the dot)
    [-E 0|1]            Endian for checksum/CRC, 0: little, 1: big
    [-f address]        Address of check result to write
    [-F address value]  Address and value to force
    [-k 0-5]            Select check method (checksum or CRC) and size
    [-d]                Display list of check methods/value size
    [-l length]         Maximal Length (Starting address + Length -1 is Max Address)
                        File will be filled with Pattern until Max Address is reached
    [-m size]           Minimum Block Size
                        File Size Dimension will be a multiple of Minimum block size
                        File will be filled with Pattern
                        Length must be a power of 2 in hexadecimal [see -l option]
                        Attention this option is STRONGER than Maximal Length
    [-p pad byte]       Pad-byte value in hex (default: 0xFF)
    [-r start end]      Range to compute checksum over (default is min and max addresses)
    [-s address]        Starting address in hex for binary file (default: 0)
                         ex.: if the first record is :nn010000ddddd...
                        the data supposed to be stored at 0100 will start at 0000
                        in the binary file.
                        Specifying starting address with -s 0100 will put pad bytes in the
                        binary file so that the data supposed to be stored at 0100
                        will start at the same address in the binary file.
    [-t address]        Floor address in hex
    [-T address]        Ceiling address in hex
    [-v]                Verbose messages for debugging purposes
    [-w]                Swap wordwise (low <-> high)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Hex2bin>
is a program that converts an Intel hex format into binary.
It can handle the extended Intel hex format. Both the segmented
and linear address records are supported.
Records need not be sorted and there can be gaps between records.
Records are assumed to be non-overlapping.
Padding bytes may be specified and a checksum may be inserted in the
binary file.

B<Mot2bin>
does the same with Motorola hex files. It has the same features and command line
options as hex2bin except where indicated. 24 bit and 32 bit records are supported.

=head1 OPTIONS

Options can be specified in any order, with the file name at the end. Options are
now case sensitive. All option values are specified in hexadecimal.

B<-a>

Address Alignment Word. (hex2bin only)

Hex with record type, where data is represented in Word (2 Byte)
e.g Texas Instruments: TMS320F2835, TMS320F28065.

B<-b>

Batch processing mode: the program won't ask for a file name if the one specified is wrong.

B<-c>

Enables checksum verification.

By default, it ignores checksum errors in the hex file, so that someone can change
by hand some bytes with a text editor, allowing quick fixes without recompiling a source
code all over again. This is useful when tweaking constants directly in the code or
something similar. If you want checksum error reporting, specify the option -c.

B<Ex.: hex2bin -c example.hex>

If there is a checksum error somewhere, the program will continue the
conversion anyway.

B<-C Poly Init RefIn RefOut XorOut>

CRC parameters. See the doc/CRC list.txt file for a description of common CRCs. See also
the test/Makefile for examples of command lines. Needs B<-k> and B<-f> option.
RefIn and RefOut parameters are specified by B<t> or B<f> for true or false.

B<-d>

Display the list of available check methods and sizes.

B<-e extension>

By default, the output file will have an extension B<filename.bin>.
Another extension may be specified with this command:

B<Ex.: hex2bin -e com example.hex>

The output file will be example.com

B<-E 0|1>

Endianness for writing the check result or forcing a 16-bit value.
    B<0>: little, B<1>: big.

By default, little endian is used.

B<-f address>

Address in hexadecimal for inserting the check value in the binary file. Needs B<-k>
option to specify the check method. A range can be specified with option B<-r>.

B<-F address value>

Address and value of checksum to insert (force) in the binary file. Needs B<-k>
option to specify the size. The value is written as is.

B<-k 0-5>

In many cases, someone needs to insert a check value in the binary file. For example,
a boot rom is programmed with a checksum which is verified at power-up. This feature
uses also options B<-r>, B<-C> and B<-f>. Display the list of checksum/CRC with B<-d>.

Select the checksum type to insert into the binary file
 0:  Checksum  8-bit
 1:  Checksum 16-bit (adds 16-bit words into a 16-bit sum, data and result BE or LE)
 2:  CRC8
 3:  CRC16
 4:  CRC32
 5:  Checksum 16-bit (adds bytes into a 16-bit sum, result BE or LE)

B<-l length>

The binary file will be padded with FF or pad bytes as specified by the option
below, up to a maximal Length (Starting address + Length -1 is Max Address)

B<-m minimum_block_size>

File Size Dimension will be a multiple of Minimum block size.
File will be filled with Pattern.
Length must be a power of 2 in hexadecimal [see B<-l> option]
Attention this option is STRONGER than Maximal Length

B<-p pad_byte>

Pads unused locations with the specified byte.

By default, this byte is FF, which is the unprogrammed value for most EPROM/EEPROM/Flash.

B<Ex.: hex2bin -p 3E example.hex>

B<-r [start] [end]>

Range to compute binary checksum over (default is min and max addresses)

B<-s address>

Specify the starting address of the binary file.

Normally, hex2bin will generate a binary file starting at the lowest address in
the hex file. If the lowest address isn't 0000, ex: 0100, the first byte that
should be at 0100 will be stored at address 0000 in the binary file. This may
cause problems when using the binary file to program an EPROM.

If you can't specify the starting address (or offset) to your EPROM programmer,
you can specify a starting address on the command line:

B<Ex.: hex2bin -s 0000 records_start_at_0100.hex>

The bytes will be stored in the binary file with a padding from 0000 to the
lowest address (00FF in this case). Padding bytes are all FF by default so an EPROM
programmer can skip these bytes when programming. The padding value can be changed
with the -p option.

B<-t address> 

Specify the flooring address in hexadecimal of the binary file. (hex2bin only)

This option discards all lower addresses than the flooring address.

B<-T address> 

Specify the ceiling address in hexadecimal of the binary file. (hex2bin only)

This option discards all higher addresses than the ceiling address.
B<-v>

Verbose mode for diagnostics

B<-w>

Swap wordwise (low <-> high).

=head1 NOTES

This program does minimal error checking since many hex files are
generated by known good assemblers.

=head1 AUTHOR
Jacques Pelletier (jpelletier@ieee.org) - version 2.5
